[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: According
to a recent article
in "Psychology Today," 50%
of marriages end in divorce.
And while no one wants
to go through this,
there is a way to
consciously uncouple
from a long term relationship,
so all can live happily even
after.
Joining me is the author
of a national bestseller,
"Calling in 'The One,'" a
marriage and family therapist,
and the creator of the
conscious uncoupling process,
Katherine Woodward Thomas.
In order to break the family
pattern of a terrible divorce,
Catherine established a way for
people to consciously uncouple.
And she created the household
term, conscious uncoupling.
And it is now a number one "New
York Times" bestselling book.
Welcome.
>>KATHERINE THOMAS:
It's a joy to be here.
Thank you.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
It's so great to have you here.
>>THOMAS: Thank you.
>>LISA: So tell me a little
bit about your childhood.
You started, as I
mentioned earlier,
from a very tumultuous
past, history.
>>THOMAS: Well, luckily, I
had a spiritual awakening
at the age of 14, which I just
want to clarify for everybody.
It doesn't mean I'm enlightened.
>>LISA: [LAUGHS] OK.
>>THOMAS: I think people
get confused with that.
Spiritual awakening just
means that you're suddenly
transported into a
different way of seeing life
or a different way
of experiencing life.
And it opened up a portal.
It opens up a portal,
so that it repositions
what your life is about.
So that happened to
me when I was 14.
>>LISA: 14.
>>THOMAS: Yeah.
>>LISA: How did you know that?
>>THOMAS: Well, I mean, I
was already a youth at risk.
I was a troubled kid.
My mom had me when
she was a teenager.
My parents had a nasty divorce.
There were custody
fights, two of them.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: My mother was
married three times before I
was 14 years old.
So it was just a lot
of change, turmoil.
She wasn't ready to be a
mother, so she was really
understandably so as a
teenager very rejecting,
which of course,
as a young child,
is completely confusing
and overwhelming.
So there were just
a lot of things
that were unstable, and
unloving, and unkind.
And I was that kid who
would steal cigarettes
from my mother's
purse at the age of 10
and go smoke them
with all my friends.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>THOMAS: I had multiple
lovers by the time I was 14.
I was clipping classes and
running across the street
to the bar across the street
and getting drunk instead.
>>LISA: Oh my god.
>>THOMAS: I was
really out of control.
So in the midst of
this, a friend of mine
invited me to her
house to do drugs,
which was very exciting to me.
And then at the last
minute, she got sick.
So I had nothing
to do that weekend.
And another friend invited
me to go to her little church
with her.
So I said yes because
I had nothing to do.
So off we go.
>>LISA: Better than
going home, right?
>>THOMAS: Better than just
staying at home, exactly.
So off I go, and I'm
in this Sunday school
class for teenagers.
And I'm way too
cool for the room.
And I remember the woman who
was in the Sunday school class
teaching.
And her name was Faith, aptly.
>>LISA: Of course.
>>THOMAS: And she had
little buck teeth,
and she was just the
sweetest person ever.
And she kept saying you have to
invite Jesus into your heart.
You have to invite
Jesus into your heart.
So I argued with
her the whole time.
But at the very
end of the class,
as she was going
around the room,
she said, let's just all
say one line of a prayer
to close ourselves out.
And unpremeditated by me, out of
my mouth for no reason at all,
I just said, Jesus,
please come into my heart.
Now I had never
heard of any kind
of supernatural
experience, but the moment
I said that, it was
like a vortex of light
entered into the top of my head.
It was orange.
It was gold.
I can still see it to this day.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: And it washed
through my body like a wave.
And it startled
me in that moment.
And it was in that moment
that I knew only two things.
One was that I was
really loved by whatever
it was that that was.
And number two,
that God probably
didn't want me to do drugs.
[LAUGHS]
>>LISA: Probably.
But that love you hadn't
felt before, right?
>>THOMAS: No, I'd never
had that experience before.
And I'd never heard of
such a thing before.
Because this was one
of those very simple,
quiet Christian churches.
But see, and it
didn't fix my life.
But what it did is
it gave me this place
to go to to find grace.
I knew that on a very deep
level that I was loved by life.
And I wanted to serve
that life force.
I had this desire to
know God and to do good.
So I was the kid in
high school where
I'd sit in the girls' room
with a cigarette hanging out
of one mouth and
a Bible and start
talking about-- reading Bible
verses to my friends to give
them relationship advice.
[LAUGHTER]
>>LISA: This is how you started.
>>THOMAS: That was the
beginning of my life.
>>LISA: I get this picture.
So you kept going back
to the Bible school.
>>THOMAS: Well, it was the
place where I found love.
So yeah, I went back there.
I mean, my family was still--
my stepdad had alcohol issues.
And there was just a
bunch of stuff going on.
>>LISA: So that was
your safe haven.
>>THOMAS: So that was my home.
That was my safe place.
So it didn't quite sort
me out, but as I said,
it gave me a hunger
that was moving me now
in the right direction.
I mean, to this day, I've
never done drugs because
of that experience, right?
>>LISA: She saved you.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, I
think for me, because I
have a kind of
addictive personality.
So at the same time, I was doing
things that were troublesome.
So both were growing.
But when I was 18, I decided
not to go to college,
and I went off to
Bible school instead.
I went to the Long
Island Bible Institute.
>>LISA: So you really dove in.
>>THOMAS: Which it
drove my family crazy.
So they were so upset, they
threw me out of the family.
That was their response to that.
They were distraught over that.
And off I went.
So I landed on my feet, and I
got this job cleaning someone's
house to live in the attic in
exchange for room and board.
And so I managed it, and I
went off to Bible school.
>>LISA: So what kind of
family throws the child
out that goes to seek
Bible school, truth?
>>THOMAS: Well, my
family was-- well,
this particular Bible
school was not prestigious.
And to give my mother
credit, I mean,
she would have said,
go to Oral Roberts,
like a prestigious
good Bible school.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>THOMAS: So really, what
she was responding to
is that I wasn't on
the track to become
who she wanted me to become.
And I think a lot of parents
have that transition problem.
I think if I look
back, she just wanted
me to be a successful person.
She had an idea
about what that was.
And she had no relationship
to this experience
that I was having, of falling
in love with this force
and field of life
greater than me,
that I had this deep connection
with, that would talk to me
and fill me with light and love.
So she didn't understand
that at the time.
It didn't make sense to her.
So off I go to Bible college.
And for about six months--
and this is important
to the point
I want to share with everybody
today-- so about six months,
I went in the chapel every day.
I prayed.
I read spiritual scripture
and spiritual books,
and I cried, begging God
to use my life for good.
I had a deep desire
to be of service.
And what happened is not only
was I a stranger in my family,
but my best friend
turned against me
and took all of our
friends with her.
My boyfriend from
high school went off
and married somebody else.
The eating disorder I
began at the age of 14
escalated, and I
gained 50 pounds.
So here I am living
in poverty, and I'm
in this body I don't recognize
and don't know how to navigate.
And I'm really alone.
And it was kind of
more than I could bear.
>>LISA: Yeah, at that age.
>>THOMAS: So I thought
that God had abandoned me.
Because I had this
idea, like, oh,
if I'm praying to be
used by the light--
>>LISA: You'll be saved.
>>THOMAS: I'll be elevated
to positions of leadership.
Good things will happen.
It's not always like that.
I mean, sometimes that initiates
a dark night of the soul.
>>LISA: Initiation
is the word, yes.
>>THOMAS: And I went
down into the underworld
for several years.
>>LISA: Years.
>>THOMAS: And I
stayed in addiction,
and I did reconcile
somewhat with my family
because I did end up
going back to college
and went a route that
made more sense to them.
But I was very unhappy,
and I was very troubled.
>>LISA: There's a
lot of abandonment
that's happened up to this point
with your family, your friends,
God.
At this point, you
felt very alone.
>>THOMAS: I did.
And there's always a
saving grace along the way.
So I was an artist.
I was a creative.
I was studying theater.
I love the theater.
>>LISA: Well, that's good.
>>THOMAS: So there were
gifts along the way.
I loved literature.
I found solace in the classics.
And but it didn't
really all make sense
to me, this time period,
until when I was about 25,
I decided I needed to get well.
And I started doing therapy
and 12 step programs.
And when you do
12 step programs--
because for all those years,
I didn't really talk to God.
>>LISA: Mm.
You really gave up.
>>THOMAS: I felt
really let down.
>>LISA: Mhm.
>>THOMAS: So you go to
the 12 step programs,
you need to pray again.
>>LISA: It said a lot about God.
Yes.
>>THOMAS: It's all about
turning your will and your life
over to God,
surrendering to God.
So I reconciled my
relationship to his spirit.
>>LISA: You found your way
back to the safe conversation.
>>THOMAS: I found my way back.
And immediately,
life is so forgiving.
The moment you
turn towards life,
life turns towards
you in spades.
And all these people showed
up to help me on my journey--
healers, body workers, shamans,
Lifespring, Landmark education.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>THOMAS: Like, it
was my full time job.
>>LISA: Oh.
Right.
>>THOMAS: Yes, and at the
time, I was a musician.
But I was really organized
around healing myself
and completing some
of these old trials.
>>LISA: That's amazing.
I found myself in
that same thing,
Lifespring, and
really getting to--
those courses really helped
at a certain point in life
and really catapulting you into,
what am I really doing here?
Asking the deep questions.
>>THOMAS: Well, they do, and
I'm still a lifelong learner.
I was just recently down
studying with Werner Earhart
on being a leader.
He's teaching a
course in his 80s.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: He's in his 80s now.
>>LISA: Amazing.
>>THOMAS: So we're
always learning.
>>LISA: So then you,
really, were saved by all
these wonderful experiences.
But you also had to play
your own part in it.
And you were responsible
in wanting and seeking
this type of information.
>>THOMAS: I'll tell you, I
had a moment, particularly
with compulsive over eating.
Food is a very hard
addiction to overcome
because when you're
a food addict,
you can't just put it
down like cigarettes.
You have to eat at
least three times a day.
So it took a while.
And I was in the
Overeaters Anonymous
Program for about three years,
and I could not get it right.
I would just go off
the rails all the time.
And I remember I was living
in Manhattan at the time,
and I was standing
on a street corner.
And I was having a
conversation with myself.
And I realized, Katherine,
you have to actually commit
to yourself in a way
that no one has ever
committed to you before, in
a way that your parents were
never committed to you.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: It's not
going to work unless you
make that commitment.
And when I realized that in
that moment, I said, OK, I'm in.
I commit myself
fully, and I remember
the light turned
green, which I took
as just this beautiful timing.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: And my life changed
from that moment forward.
Then I could start to get well.
>>LISA: What a
powerful conversation.
>>THOMAS: Yeah.
>>LISA: You have to
commit to yourself
more than anyone has ever
committed to you in your life.
You've never seen it.
There's never been
a model of it.
You've never felt it.
And you have to come up
with this deep feeling.
>>THOMAS: You're the one.
You're the one who
has to do that.
And I think a lot of us stay in
all these healing modalities,
but we're not actually
having the breakthrough.
Because what we've done is we've
internalized the bad parenting
that our parents gave us.
And then we treat ourselves
much the same way.
So if our parents
weren't focused on us,
our parents didn't go
to the wall for us,
our parents didn't take a
stand for our well-being,
we don't have that
within our personality.
We have to go to our soul.
>>LISA: We have to.
>>THOMAS: We have
to go to our soul.
>>LISA: Yeah, mhm.
>>THOMAS: Because
every one of us
has a part of us
that is fiercely
devoted to our
evolution, that's already
on board with that possible
future that we're looking into.
>>LISA: That's why we came back.
That's why we came back.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, we all have
that purpose within us.
>>LISA: It's such an
interesting example
because your soul came
in with that deep message
to really want to get it.
And it lost its way,
and then it found it.
And it's lost its way
again, and it found it.
And it lost its way again.
And this describes so
many people's lives.
But they give up
at the lost its way
part, which is understandable.
You have to really
dedicate you to yourself
to pull yourself out of it.
>>THOMAS: Yes, and I think
there's almost a flow,
a natural organic flow.
At some point when
you're well enough,
you begin giving back, that
it becomes not just about you
being committed to you, but
you being committed to others
and ultimately you being
committed to the world.
>>LISA: Is that how you then
got into becoming an author?
>>THOMAS: Oh, yes.
Well, I mean, it was
completely from the inside out.
So I did go back to school
when I was in my mid 30s
to become a marriage
and family therapist.
But it was just really
to put a structure
around what it was that
I was already doing.
So one of the things
that I did to give
back-- so about 12 years into
this, and it did take 12 years.
It's not going to take
that long for people now
because we're all
speeding everything up.
I really believe that when
we heal certain things,
we make it easier for
those coming after us.
But it took me 12
years to heal all this.
And when I was in my mid
30s, I felt so grateful.
Now, I didn't have the
relationship I wanted.
I still didn't have
a lot of money.
I had a singing career
that was very unfulfilling,
and I had to do all sorts
of stuff to support myself
and I was doing that
I didn't like doing.
So I wasn't
personally fulfilled.
But I laugh because I say,
but I was like now part
of the worried well.
I was not neurotically.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>THOMAS: I was just
normally neurotic.
I was normally unhappy, which
was actually a great level
up for me.
It was a big step up.
>>LISA: Like most working
waitresses, right?
>>THOMAS: Yeah, or all of us
who are striving for things
that we don't yet have.
And we're unhappy because
of the state of whatever.
But I had a life, was the point.
When I was a compulsive over
eater and really out there,
I actually couldn't function.
It was hard for
me to hold a job.
I call myself a low bottom
compulsive over eater.
>>LISA: But what I meant
by working waitress
is someone who has a
great job as a waitress
and also wants to work
in entertainment like you
did as a singer.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: And you're working
on yourself at the same time.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>THOMAS: So but
out of gratitude, I
decided I wanted to do
something to give back to God.
So I said, thank
you for healing me.
What can I do for you?
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: And I listened.
Like, I really listened, and the
answer didn't come right away.
So I prayed this every
day for six weeks
before the answer came.
What can I do for you?
And it came to me
when I was jogging
one day to go down
to Skid Row because I
lived in LA at the time.
I still do.
But to go down to Skid
Row and to do an album
with people who are struggling
to get off of the streets.
Because we had a huge
homeless population back
then, which we still
do unfortunately.
>>LISA: We do.
>>THOMAS: And I was a musician.
So I had never made a CD.
I didn't know how to do that.
But the moment I got
it, I was like, OK,
that sounds wonderful.
What do I do next?
And so one step in front of the
other, and a couple of months
later, I'm sitting
at the LA Mission
with 18 people who are in their
program, who had been sober
for six months and were trying
to turn their life around.
And I'm running creative writing
workshops to get a body of work
that we could then bring
professional songwriters in
to help them craft
that into songs.
And so I'm meeting with them
before the professional writers
come in.
And week after week, and
what I'm noticing-- now I
have no training at this point.
I'm a wannabe singer songwriter
who's at the age of 35.
But I'm there out of love, and
I'm creating these exercises
for them to do.
And they're coming
back week after week,
and their lives are
radically changing.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>THOMAS: Like,
weeping, and liberated,
and having all sorts of amazing
healings with their family
and with what's possible.
And their lives are opening up.
And it was in that meeting that
I suddenly had an epiphany.
And I realized that going into
all of those years of darkness
was not God abandoning me.
It was God answering my prayer.
>>LISA: Deepening you, mm.
>>THOMAS: It was
actually giving me
the transmission, the
understanding of how to heal
your life from the inside out.
>>LISA: And just by
showing up in the streets
with these people and
listening, untrained, no skills,
didn't need it.
You just listened
and worked with them
in this beautiful, incredible--
and did you ever do the CD?
>>THOMAS: Yeah, it came out.
It was out nationally.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: We had a concert
on the ABC in concert.
We had Richie Havens, and Rita
Coolidge, and Brenda Russell,
like really wonderful artists.
Mavis Staples was on it.
It was quite a
wonderful project.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>THOMAS: But it
convinced me like OK,
to go back to graduate
school to become a therapist
and get credentialed there.
>>LISA: And then out
of that came the books.
I see.
>>THOMAS: Well, as you see,
I'm a lifelong learner.
So at that time, I'm really
learning about metaphysics,
and I'm steeped in
consciousness and how
we're creating our future.
And I'm into the
ideas about things
like living life from
the future backwards.
>>LISA: Mhm, your memory.
>>THOMAS: Right,
Michael Beckwith talks
about visioning your future
and then living into,
not just hoping that that future
happens because we're sitting
on a meditation cushion, but
really being in this inquiry,
how might I become the person
who would manifest that future,
who could sustain that future,
this whole transformation
of who you are at the
level of identity.
So it's living into that future.
So I'm really steeped now in
these metaphysical principles
as I'm in graduate
school, as I'm
working with this population
of people who are homeless.
And I decide at the
age of 41 that I
would like to get married.
Now, I had actually wanted to
get married for many years.
But out of my childhood--
>>LISA: Yeah,
there was no model.
>>THOMAS: --you
could predictively
see that I would have some
pretty bad relational habits.
And so I had been
struggling with even all
these wonderful
things happening.
I'd been struggling with
intimate relationships,
and I had a lot of
push pull dynamics.
I had a lot of--
>>LISA: Distrust.
>>THOMAS:
--disappointments, mistrust,
ways that I didn't
really value myself.
So basically, I had this pattern
where unavailable people would
show up.
Just any form of
an impossible love
would find its way
somehow to my doorstep.
>>LISA: You would attract it.
>>THOMAS: Like a magnet for a
married man, and engaged men,
and alcoholic men, gay men
who wanted to explore--
like, wherever it was just
never going to really work out.
And no available men
came into my life.
Or if they did, they
left very quickly.
>>LISA: Because you
couldn't handle it.
It was a-- yeah.
>>THOMAS: It was
actually confusing to me.
I didn't think of it is
because I couldn't handle it
because I thought that
I was really ready.
So--
>>LISA: Wait, how was
it confusing to you?
Because you were not available?
>>THOMAS: I didn't know
that I wasn't available.
See, we think we're one way.
We think we want something.
And we assume we're
ready to receive it.
There's all sorts of
things that are going on.
If we don't have
something chronically,
there's parts of us that are not
aligned with that future that
are actually getting something
out of the not having of that.
>>LISA: The behavior never lies.
>>THOMAS: The behavior doesn't.
So we have to engage and
turn towards those parts
of ourselves.
Like, OK, what's
the part of me that
doesn't want a relationship?
What are the agreements
that I had with people
long ago that would be blocking
love from coming into my life?
How am I still victimized
by relationships
in a way that would have
me not really trust myself
ultimately, that
I'm going to keep
myself safe in a relationship?
So all of this began
because when I was 41,
I decided to set an
intention to be engaged.
I called up a friend.
I was doing this group of
intention setting group.
I called my friend
from the group,
and I said I'm going to set
a wild intention that I'm
going to be engaged
by my 42nd birthday.
And she said something that
really changed my life.
She said, Katherine, I am
going to hold that intention
within for you if you
give me permission
to hold you
accountable for being
the woman you would need to be
in order for that to happen.
>>LISA: Ah, good friend.
>>THOMAS: She repositioned
the whole thing for me.
And that's when I learned it
was really important to be
much more interested in
finding my way to that future
than in sorting
through the past.
And so I needed to look for
those parts of me that were
inconsistent with that future.
But I did it inside
of the commitment
to manifest a miracle
in my love life.
>>LISA: You had a
goal set for yourself,
but you did the same thing
you did on the street corner
in New York.
You recommitted to yourself.
>>THOMAS: Yeah.
Yes, I did, to my future
self, to my possible self,
and my possible life.
>>LISA: That's brilliant.
Yeah.
>>THOMAS: Right?
>>LISA: That is.
>>THOMAS: So then I started to
organize around that future.
And of course, that sent me
on my meditation question
every day at a whole new level.
Like, what would I
need to let go of?
What would I need to
cultivate to prepare myself?
And this is really what
then eventually became
the calling in the one process.
Because several weeks
into this process,
as I'm sitting there meditating,
and I'm taking actions.
It's not insight oriented.
It's action oriented.
>>LISA: Uh-huh, you have to be.
Yes.
>>THOMAS: Right?
So if you get oh, I'm
holding this resentment,
and I still feel victimized,
I haven't taken responsibility
for my part in what happened.
The moment I see my part,
I then pick up the phone
and apologize to that
person for my part.
Like, you have to
put it into action.
You can't endlessly
write in your journal.
You have to live
your transformation
on the court of your
relationships and in your life.
>>LISA: That's accountability.
>>THOMAS: It is accountability.
And it's also this dynamic
co-creative partnership
with life to usher in
the future that you're
committed to creating.
>>LISA: It's no joke.
Yeah, you have to commit to it,
fully be accountable for it,
and explore.
Now, did you
accomplish this goal?
>>THOMAS: Yes.
And I just want
to say, sometimes
people are afraid to set these
commitments because they're
afraid they're going
to be disappointed.
I always say, honey, you
have a PhD in disappointment.
You've got that one-handed.
Don't worry about that.
You'll know how to
manage it if you do.
But you have to go for the gold.
Don't set a future that's just
going to be predictable if you
keep doing what you're doing.
You want to create a future
that's going to really push on
you to transform who you are.
So several weeks into
this, I'm sitting
on my meditation cushion.
I have this kind of download
that I should contact
this man I hadn't seen in
six years who I'd always
thought of as the one
that got away, named Mark.
That's the one
thing I did not do
because I was so shy about it.
I thought oh, I'm
sure he's married.
He was such a lovely man.
So he was one of the very
few available men in life,
and I created some drama.
And I felt bad about the drama.
And so I didn't do it.
>>LISA: And you
created another story,
thinking oh, he's
not available still.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, then I
created another story.
That's what we do.
So I go to Agape, which is
Michael Beckwith's church.
I'd been going
there for 10 years.
Had never seen Mark.
And there he is across
the parking lot.
I have a shy attack, and
I do not go to say hello.
And he leaves.
Two weeks after that,
I am complaining
to another friend
who is supporting me
in this intention.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>THOMAS: He's not here yet.
My birthday is just
a few months away.
She says, you need to
get on the internet.
Now, this is a while ago.
This is back when I was 41.
So back then, nobody had their
pictures on the internet.
It was just starting.
It was one step up
from the personal ads
in the paper, which was like
the horrible Lonely Hearts Club.
So but I'm coachable.
So I went on, went
on to a site that had
a quarter of a million people.
I ended up responding to
just one person completely
anonymously with no photo.
And it was him.
It was Mark.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
Wow!
>>THOMAS: And we went out.
We were engaged just
a few months later,
married the next year.
And then I gave birth
to our daughter.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
This is why you need
accountability partners
in your life.
Your tribe was awesome
in keeping you on track
and reminding you, you
made this commitment.
What about this?
And that's such a
beautiful thing.
These are friends.
And we're in an intentional
circle together,
and it's wonderful to keep
that, just to stay accountable,
just friends.
You have to have a
committed time around it.
>>THOMAS: And it's more than
just oh, good luck with that,
like wishing us well.
It's like, Lisa, what happened?
Where are you?
This is your intention.
I remember it really
well because it really
touched my heart.
I'm holding it with you.
What's up with that?
>>LISA: That's what we do.
>>THOMAS: Yeah.
>>LISA: Yeah, and
that's what anyone can
do with any circle of friends.
And then they can be from
random walks of life, too.
But it really helps.
So thus you called in the one.
>>THOMAS: I called
in the one, and I
started living my magical
"Calling in 'The One'" life
because I had never
written before.
And then I got a book
deal with Random House,
and then it went on the
national bestseller list.
And then I had my daughter.
I used the same techniques
to call in my daughter.
I got pregnant pretty
effortlessly at the age of 42.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: When I
bought my dream home,
I had thousands of people start
to come to me as a teacher.
I was really living the happily
ever after life to the hilt.
And then about 10 years
in, my husband and I
decided to get a divorce.
>>LISA: I feel like we should
hear the screech on the brakes
right there.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, and
the crash of the car.
>>LISA: Oh.
What happened?
>>THOMAS: A little
PR problem on my end.
>>LISA: Yeah.
What happened?
>>THOMAS: Well,
oh, there's a lot.
That's a really full question.
I mean, because I'm really
growing and learning.
I mean, he was really
the right man for me.
But I really changed.
I'm such a--
>>LISA: Growth person.
>>THOMAS: --change junkie.
And I think-- and we
just changed over time,
and we grew apart.
And we started to see
that our philosophies were
very different.
Our callings were
different and that
what we really cared about
together was our daughter.
I mean, we cared
about each other,
but we realized that we
didn't need to be married
to raise our daughter well.
I mean, we got kind of
interested in this question.
Like, is it possible to
raise a healthy child
with a happy childhood
if you divorce?
Like, what would it look like
to have a happy post divorce
family?
>>LISA: Right, because there's--
>>THOMAS: And we began to
see this-- oh, I'm sorry.
>>LISA: --so many people that
are in that situation asking
the same question.
>>THOMAS: Well, we began to see
this idea of divorce damages
kids as very limited
in its perspective.
And the truth is, is that
divorce does damage kids if you
have warring parents.
Even if that's a Cold War, where
the parents are not aligned.
>>LISA: Oh, they feel it.
>>THOMAS: Where there's
somehow a break in the family,
and they no longer are
being held in a family.
Because a family is a
container for children.
So we saw it then as a
profound lack of creativity,
that we hadn't figured out yet
how to keep your family intact,
but end your marriage,
and set each other free
from the agreements that one
might have in a marriage,
and recreate the relationship
to be great co-parents together.
>>LISA: Well, that means
that you and Mark had
to be OK with your
relationship the way
that it was as you
were uncoupling.
You had to be OK
with the process.
>>THOMAS: OK, well, it all
sounds very enlightened.
And I can just hear
people saying, wow,
I wish I was in that situation--
>>LISA: But my husband
is-- yeah, right.
>>THOMAS: But my
husband or my wife--
>>LISA: My wife, yeah.
>>THOMAS: Exactly.
So what I created out
of this experience
was this new teaching,
conscious uncoupling,
that inspired Gwyneth
Paltrow's conscious divorce.
And I realized that most
people are not really
going to be able to
live their ideals.
Like, we all would aspire
to a conscious breakup.
We all want to have
an amicable ending.
But very few of us
can actually do it
because of what's going on for
us on a lot of different levels
when we break up.
Nature has not designed
us to come apart.
Nature has hard wired
us to stay connected.
And so when we go through
a breakup, most of us
know that experience
of going from soulmate
to soul hate, which is kind
of the organic process.
We go to a place
of anger and rage,
and we're very
obsessed with how we've
been wronged and disappointed.
But I see that as nature's trick
to keep us bonded with someone.
>>LISA: Ah, to be safe.
>>THOMAS: That
nature would rather
us have a negative bond than
actually just release the bond
and recreate it to be much
less invested in each other.
>>LISA: It is counterintuitive.
>>THOMAS: It is
counterintuitive.
That's why I call it
conscious uncoupling.
Because we have to be
conscious of our biology
and how we're hardwired,
which is beautiful.
Because look, 1,000 years
ago, if we wandered away
from our tribe, we were
probably going to die.
>>LISA: And ostracized, yes.
Mhm.
>>THOMAS: And even now,
rejection looks in the brain
like death, like threat.
It is a threat for life.
So if we're rejected,
we really do
feel like we're going to die.
>>LISA: The survival kicks up.
>>THOMAS: That
somebody's killing us.
We go into fight, or
flight, or freeze.
We are on high alert.
The thinking part of
our brain diminishes.
So how can we live
aligned with our ethics
as opposed to our emotions when
we're going through a breakup,
particularly if we're the
person who's being left?
Because the person
who is leaving
has had time to integrate
this and build an identity
outside of the relationship.
And even if that person has
been warning the other person
over and over, it's a shock
when someone leaves us.
>>LISA: Yes, and it's
an abandonment issue.
Now, did you
process all of that?
You're sure none of
that was coming up
when you were going through this
conscious uncoupling with Mark
where the abandonment or the
lack of availability, all
that--
>>THOMAS: Well, I mean,
conscious uncoupling
is what happened
with Mark and I.
And it's informed
by the thousands
of people I've worked with now.
Right?
And because I'm
teaching "Calling
in 'The One'" for years and
one of the things I see is
the biggest obstacle to having
a great relationship is being
incomplete with a
former relationship.
And I always like to say your
next relationship does not
begin when you meet
the next person.
Your next relationship
will begin with how
you end with this person.
>>LISA: Mm, how you complete it.
>>THOMAS: How you complete it.
>>LISA: That's a good evolution.
>>THOMAS: So I've been working.
I've been privileged enough
to work with tens of thousands
of people in an intimate
way in my courses.
And I've been able to
read their writing.
So conscious uncoupling is not--
I mean, Mark and I, we didn't
have the kind of fiery dynamic
that makes a relationship
incredibly challenging to part
in a conscious way.
You have a lot of passion
in the relationship.
We always had kind of a
foundation of friendship.
So it is going to be
a bit easier than some
of the people I'm
working with now.
So that's what also
inspired, OK, I'm
really going to really
break this down.
And so most of us need these
kinds of action steps and ways
to think about exactly
what we're going through
in order to find our
way to that happy
even after future that conscious
uncoupling helps us to get to.
>>LISA: Well, I wanted
to take a look here
at this video where conscious
uncoupling has transformed
into this household name.
Take a look.
>>THOMAS: Conscious uncoupling
caused a media frenzy
when it was first
introduced to the world
by a beautiful actress
and her talented musician
former husband.
To date, it has been featured
on the Today Show, the "New York
Times," the "Wall
Street Journal," "Time"
magazine, the "Washington Post,"
"People" magazine, the "London
Times," and others.
We all know that
most breakups are
brutal, filled with
hostility and animosity,
quickly going from
soulmate to soul hate.
But here's the good news.
None of us want to break up in
these destructive toxic ways.
We don't want to hurt ourselves
any more than we're already
hurting.
We don't want to hate the
people that we once loved.
And we certainly don't want
to do damage to our children.
We just haven't had any
alternatives until now.
Conscious uncoupling
provides the blueprint
for how we can complete our
romantic unions in a way that
leaves us happy,
whole, and free.
The conscious
uncoupling process was
inspired by my own experience.
Ours is not a broken family.
Rather, we call it
an expanded family,
a family that's restructured
itself in a healthy way,
people much like the couple
that I worked with recently,
Kevin and Katie, who I helped
end their seven year marriage
in a way that preserved
their friendship
and protected the love
that initially brought them
together.
>> The biggest breakthrough that
I had while going through this
process was just finding out
that the things I was blaming
her for I really should
have been looking at myself.
>> Both of us learned so much
about who we are individually,
and also we're able to take
our relationship to honestly
a whole other level.
I mean, I feel like
we are so good.
I feel like we're
probably in one
of the best places
we've ever been,
going through this process.
>>THOMAS: It's time for us to
learn how to break up better.
>>LISA: That couple seemed
like that they were in a better
relationship after this.
>>THOMAS: So lovely.
I mean, but she fell in
love with another man,
so she ended the
marriage and is still
in that relationship
with this young man.
>>LISA: Ah.
But he in this process
realized that he
hadn't communicated
to her the way
that she needed to
be communicated with.
Do couples ever get back
together after this process?
>>THOMAS: They do.
They do actually.
>>LISA: I'm sure.
>>THOMAS: But I'm
always careful to tell
people, don't do conscious
uncoupling for that reason.
But you are uncoupling
from the former dynamic.
>>LISA: OK.
>>THOMAS: And if you
get back together,
it's about recreating
a new dynamic.
Because the first three
steps of conscious uncoupling
are all about deep insight
into your own part of things.
>>LISA: Your
responsibility in it all.
>>THOMAS: And your
responsibility,
and your patterns,
and your story,
and how do you
evolve around that.
So those are the
first three steps
before you then go and
start to work things out
with the other person.
So it's a very deep
internal journey.
>>LISA: So now, you
uncover a huge thing here
about this divorce industry
being a $50 billion industry.
And you're really trying
to solve that, aren't you?
>>THOMAS: Well, it's a dilemma.
I mean, I'm going to assume that
most people who get into family
law do so from a good place.
But the system of
family law has a lot
of people making a lot
of money in a way that's
a little predatory
on the big emotions
that people are experiencing.
Because as I said, you're
in that fight or flight--
people do things like they
go through their children's
college fund.
Or they'll spend
$30,000 to get 10,000
back just to be right about it.
I mean, we're kind of as human
beings hardwired for fairness.
And when bad things
happen that feel unfair,
we just kind of go
a little haywire.
So I think that
the system, which
charges massive
amounts of money,
and there are attorneys
charging $750 an hour,
and those hours add up
when someone is upset,
when someone is obsessing.
And so it's very easy
to go down that road,
and the legal system
is set up for that.
So I just want to
give a shout out
to the heroic legal
professionals who are saying,
hey, guys, we might
be making less money,
but I bet this is
better for humanity.
And in the long
run, I think we'll
end up making just as
much or more because maybe
our reputation will get around,
and we can live with ourselves
and be good examples
of what it is to be
a human being to our children.
So there's a lot
of people taking
stands for that in the
therapeutic community
and also in the legal community.
But it is a big breakdown.
And there's a book
about it called
"Divorce Court" for anyone who
wants to explore that further.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
Well, this is good.
So you're telling people
to go through this process.
And there's a five-step process
to living happily even after.
Can you take us through that?
>>THOMAS: OK.
Well, we start where we are.
So step 1, find
emotional freedom.
We're all a little haywire.
The studies also show that
someone undergoing a breakup
has the same brain patterns
as someone who's undergoing
the death of a loved one.
It's extremely traumatic.
We therapists call it a
rupture of attachment.
Our relationships
regulate us, so we're
deregulated also
by the relation,
by not having the relationship.
That's that phenomenon of
the person who's hurting you
most, the moment they
call, your whole body
calms down when you
hear their name.
So it's this very
confusing time.
So we have to get a
handle on our big emotions
because every action
we take, every step we
take in those moments are
going to be defining our lives
and the lives of our
children if we have them,
moving forward for
decades to come.
So we want to do--
I offer simple ways to kind
of de-escalate our emotions.
We want to have our feelings.
We don't want our
feelings to have us.
So just a simple thing like
what psychologists call
affect labeling, where you
just stop, take a breath.
You say, Katherine, honey,
what are you feeling right now?
Oh, that's rage.
OK.
I can see how big that rage is.
What else are you feeling?
It starts to put you
back in the driver's seat
where you can make decisions
from rational mind.
So before you take action,
press the pause button,
calm yourself down.
I also to help
people in this step
to transform those negative
emotions into the fuel
for positive change,
setting intention, using
the energy of them to
say this shall never
be so from this moment forward.
This is how this is going to go.
>>LISA: Declare--
>>THOMAS: Yes.
>>LISA: --that this-- yes.
>>THOMAS: You
harness that energy.
Step 2 is about the
reclamation of your power.
And that's going to have
to do with you seeing
your part clearly, which is
not easy because usually,
other people have behaved in
ways that are hard to swallow,
that are deceptive.
They've not told the truth.
They've not been honorable.
So I like to say even if it's
97% the other person's fault,
what's your 3%?
And it might have
even been passive.
You skipped over
your own knowing.
You were people pleasing
at your own expense.
You were minimizing
the red flags.
You were turning away
from your own truth.
So you have to see how you
yourself threw yourself
under the bus in order to make
an amends to yourself moving
forward by promising
yourself you're
never going to do this again.
And that's how
you're going to trust
yourself to ever love again.
>>LISA: It seems like one of
the biggest pieces right there.
>>THOMAS: It is because
breakups are a crossroads.
And people will go on to live
a lesser life in the aftermath
of a bad breakup.
I've seen that.
I've met people 10, 20
years after the breakup--
>>LISA: Never over it.
>>THOMAS: --who never really
had another relationship again.
So this is the step.
If you can find
the gold and then
make that promise
to yourself, you
will know you will never make
with the same mistake again.
You will indeed do
it differently--
>>LISA: This is really
good for couples
while they're in a relationship.
This is great couples therapy.
>>THOMAS: Well, sometimes
people read it when they're just
thinking about a breakup.
And it will transform
their relationships.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
I could think so.
OK, and the third step?
>>THOMAS: Breaking the
pattern, healing your heart.
Most of us revert
back to a place
that's very familiar when we
have a relationship that ends.
Sp you remember that
Gilbert O'Sullivan song
in the '70s of-- dating
myself again a little bit--
"Alone Again Naturally."
>>LISA: Yes.
>>THOMAS: (SINGING)
Alone again naturally.
So it's kind of like that.
Like, we go back.
Oh, see, I'm alone.
Oh, see, I'm always abused.
See, I can never trust love.
We go back to an old story.
So I, in step 3,
say, look, let this
break your heart wide open.
Let's go back to the
source fracture story,
the original time that
you had a broken heart,
and what you made that mean.
And let's actually
correct that at the core.
So because you've
been broken open,
you have nowhere to
go but to do this.
Most of the times, we're
walking around like, oh, yeah,
I need to take care of it.
I'm co-dependent and take
care of that little issue.
But when you're in a breakup
and your heart is broken,
it's like God's got you
upside down and inside out.
Like, there is nowhere to go--
>>LISA: Twisted open, yeah.
>>THOMAS: --but to see what's
really true about that story
and to finally push
back against the story.
Take a stand.
Start to see how you've been
perpetuating this story.
Give that up forever,
and graduate from it.
>>LISA: Ah, wow.
That's amazing.
Well, it does really help if you
have a guide, like a therapist,
to really help you
go through this.
It does help.
And then the fourth step of
living happily even after?
>>THOMAS: Well, this
is my favorite step.
Become a love alchemist.
It's being able to transform
the field between yourself
and the other person.
So there's forgiveness
of yourself--
>>LISA: Wow.
Yeah.
>>THOMAS: --and
forgiveness of the other.
I have a whole
exercise about how
to actually clear the
emotional residue in the field.
You know that tension
between people
when there's been hurt feelings,
and there's never really
been a clearing--
>>LISA: When you're
in a holiday,
and there's a divorced family.
>>THOMAS: --and the
kids go back and forth.
And even you have conscious
parents, and they're like,
Dad got a girlfriend.
And you're like,
mm, that's nice.
But nobody's fooled
by that at all.
So how do you actually
clear the residue
so that you're at peace,
there's a clear field?
And I'll just say--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: --a tip for
that is that that's
all has to do with amends.
Apologies are insufficient when
someone's really been hurt.
You have to go back
and say, how can I make
this right, moving forward?
And if I can't ever
make it right with you,
just, I want you
to know I know it.
I see it.
I'm sorry.
I'll never do that
again to anyone else.
But that's what begins to
repair the emotional damage
and brings us to a
place where we really
can all have Thanksgiving
together and have a great day.
>>LISA: And that's what the
last step is, is create that?
>>THOMAS: Well, creating
your happily ever after life.
So there's structures involved
in that and some legal advice
that I give about how to
navigate this well with people
who are conscious in
the legal profession.
But the big thing,
the big takeaway
is consciously
renegotiating the agreements
of your relationship.
Studies show that our happiness
level is directly related
to our expectations,
and our expectations
are all about the
agreements we've made,
whether they're overt or covert.
So just that agreement,
like this was my husband.
He's supposed to
always take care of me.
I'm supposed to be the
most important person.
And then the rage that might
come up a year later when
he finds a girlfriend--
that's because I never
consciously made that
agreement into a new agreement.
Like, I set my husband free.
He is now no longer responsible
for my emotional well-being.
He is responsible
to co-parent well.
He's taking that on.
And that's what my
expectations of him can be.
>>LISA: So reconfigure
your expectations.
>>THOMAS: You reconfigure
your expectations
so that you can find a way to
be happy with each other moving
forward.
>>LISA: This can really
apply to so many things.
It could apply to
a loss of a job
and a bad boss or a
relationship that you
need to get out of because
of a bad work environment.
It could apply to a breakup
of even a political structure.
>>THOMAS: Or a business breakup.
Those business
partnerships are hard.
Losing a best friend is hard.
I've had people do it
with their best friends
because they were heartbroken.
Their best friend won't
talk to them anymore.
I've had people do it who have
moved from one city to another
to break up with the old city.
So it actually does translate
to a lot of different things.
>>LISA: Conscious uncoupling
in many different ways.
There's a lot of
pain in separation.
>>THOMAS: Yeah.
Oh, there's tremendous pain.
It's one of the biggest
traumas we're ever
going to go through, certainly
with an intimate relationship.
But loss is not something
that we're very good with.
And the truth is, is that
with rapid change that we're
all inside of, we're all
living with a lot of loss.
We have to learn how
to consciously complete
those things we're leaving
behind in our lives.
>>LISA: Because we are changing
so fast that we don't really
have the time to process.
And we leave these
disenfranchised pieces
of ourselves along the way.
And this is a wonderful
way to recollect,
become accountable for where
you might have lost your way,
and move into the future in
a much more conscious way.
Do you have community groups
around this and people
that get to talk amongst
each other about this?
>>THOMAS: Well, yeah.
Well, I train coaches.
I mean, a lot of my time is
training conscious uncoupling
coaches and "Calling
in 'The One'" coaches.
And so we have a very active
educational community.
And then I do a lot of
calls in the community.
And so the answer is yes,
and I have a lot of things.
I have a starter kit that's
free that people can just
go to the website and download.
>>LISA: Well, that's wonderful.
So you have an
opportunity for your--
which I love.
It's not just you
centric, although you
created this term and
conscious uncoupling process.
But you teach it to others, so
that they can then help others.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, they're out in
their community writing groups.
So they're partnering
with attorneys,
or they're seeing
clients face-to-face.
I mean, yeah, there's a whole
thriving community around it.
>>LISA: It's incredible,
really, what you have created.
>>THOMAS: Thank you.
>>LISA: And I must mention that
I mean, through all of this,
through your story,
in the meantime,
you had a massive
health challenge.
And this health challenge
came in the midst
of you creating an amazing
vehicle process to solve
a lot of the world's problems.
>>THOMAS: Yeah.
Well, I was in the
middle of writing
the conscious uncoupling
book, actually,
when I was diagnosed
with breast cancer.
>>LISA: Oh my god.
>>THOMAS: And yeah.
So but I'll tell you what.
When you have a cancer
diagnosis, anyone--
and by the way, a lot of women
are getting breast cancer.
So it's more and more common.
>>LISA: But you're sitting
here talking to me today.
>>THOMAS: Oh yeah, there's
so many great treatments.
But so what happened was when
you get a diagnosis of cancer,
there's a few days
because they'll call you,
and they'll tell
you you're positive.
You do have cancer.
But they don't tell you
the stage that you're in
or any information about
what kind it is or anything.
You have to make an
appointment with your doctor.
So there's that two or
three days before you
can get in to see your
doctor, where I liken it
to what I would imagine
if you drive off a cliff,
and you're just kind of like--
>>LISA: In the air.
>>THOMAS: --wow, I wonder
what's going to happen
when we get to the bottom.
I wonder if I'm going
to survive this.
Everything goes
into slow motion.
But I was so fortunate
because Spirit
spoke to me in that moment
and said, don't worry.
You're not going
to die from this.
And then what Spirit said
to me is you decided,
you set this up
before you incarnated.
And whether it's true
or not, who knows?
But this is what I heard.
You set this up
before you incarnated
as in a kind early
exit should you never
become the woman you became.
Your life was so hard
how you set it up.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>THOMAS: But because
you have chosen
love so many thousands
of times, this
is going to wash through
you, and you will remember it
like a bad case of the hiccups.
So the gift of that was
I never wanted to fear.
>>LISA: How did-- wow.
>>THOMAS: Or I never was afraid
during the whole experience.
>>LISA: I just have to say,
that's an incredible example
of guidance.
That is nothing you could have
ever come up with yourself.
>>THOMAS: No, and
I've completely
repositioned the experience.
So I went into this
space of deep surrender,
and I was in bliss most of
the time because everybody
loves on you.
Everybody takes care of you.
You don't have to do
anything to reciprocate.
I went into this awareness of
even the hundreds of thousands
of people who've
marched to raise money
for cancer research, breast
cancer awareness, who I will
never know, but owe my life
to, because lo and behold,
a miracle drug
came on the market
just six months before
I was diagnosed.
I mean, it's just--
>>LISA: For your
particular type of cancer.
>>THOMAS: For my
My mother came and
took care of me
when I was doing chemotherapy.
>>LISA: Oh, wow.
>>THOMAS: And that was amazing
because she didn't take care
of me when I was a little girl.
>>LISA: Aw.
>>THOMAS: So it was very
healing for both with us.
It released her from some of
her guilt and her feeling bad
about that.
It gave me kind of a somatic
course correct of having
my mother take care of me
because anyone who's had chemo,
you're kind of lying
on your bed for hours.
You can't even get up
and get a glass of water.
You've just lost 11
pounds in two days.
I mean, it's pretty intense.
But then because of
that, I also decided,
knowing that this was a
temporary journey, that I
was just going to let this
open my heart to compassion
for people who had physical
illness because I never
had that before.
So I really allowed that
experience to deepen me
and my compassion for people.
I also allowed it to
reset my integrity.
That was the keyword for me.
OK, what's no longer
appropriate in my life?
What do I need to
clean up in my life?
What relationships
need to deepen?
What relationships need to go?
It repositioned everything.
I have to say it really
was an extraordinary gift.
And of course, I'm fine.
I'm cancer free.
I mean, the
radiologist actually--
because I was writing the book.
So I couldn't really write it
when I was in chemo because you
get that chemo brain.
I tried.
Believe me.
But it was a bunch of nonsense.
But when I came out of the
chemo after 4 and 1/2 months,
I went back to work and
was writing on the book.
And the radiologist at
one point said to me,
this cancer isn't really the
main event of your life, is it?
I'm like, no, I'm
writing a book.
I mean, [LAUGHTER] I never
got an identity around it.
So that was the
grace and the gift
of being able to
stay out of fear.
And I like sharing this story
because if the person who's
hearing this, who needs to
hear this right now, maybe
didn't get that road of Damascus
or burning bush experience,
this is your burning bush.
This is me saying it to you now.
>>LISA: That's awesome.
>>THOMAS: So just surrender
to this beautiful journey
of being loved and cared for by
all of the people who are there
giving that support to you.
>>LISA: That's a great way to
look at it and to, as you said,
also go through the
process with a theme.
And your theme was to
transform, and you did.
You absolutely did.
So you transformed
so much that you then
went into now the
dating world again.
And I have to ask you,
how do you suggest
dating into your 50s, 60s, 70s?
What do you suggest there?
>>THOMAS: It is
really different.
And I have to say, my friend
Joan Breger, who's a--
or Bragger, excuse me.
Dr. Joan Bragger is one of my
"Calling in 'The One'" coaches,
which is a great honor for me.
She's also a PhD from
Harvard University.
But she's really
interested in this
because she has
done this in her 60s
where she found her partner,
and he's a wonderful man.
And actually, a lot
of my coaches have.
So she's been actually
studying the difference,
and we're thinking about
creating an article
or something.
One of the things that
she said to me recently
that I will pass on is she
said you have to really accept
who this person has become.
>>LISA: You?
>>THOMAS: Well,
when you're dating.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
>>THOMAS: Which is very
different than dating
when you're younger.
It's all about the
possibility of who
you could become,
who you might become,
who one day will become.
When you partner in your
60s, you're with someone
and you're accepting who they
have already chosen to become.
>>LISA: To be, yes.
And you, too-- who
you've chosen to be.
>>THOMAS: Yeah, and
reciprocate it as well.
Absolutely.
And then you also have different
expectations because you
have different obligations.
Very few of us reach our 60s
without people and things
that we're obligated
to and committed to.
So it's about really
looking at kind
of the automatic expectations
that we have from that happily
ever after myth.
By the way, that myth
is 400 years old,
and it was created when the
lifespan was less than 40.
The new norm today
is serial monogamy.
That's not me advocating
for spiritual monogamy.
It's just the statistics.
Most of us will have two or
three significant relationships
in our lifetime.
And the expectations
need to change according
to different times of life.
The happily ever
after myth was only
about a young maiden
who was probably
a virgin going into her
first ever relationship.
>>LISA: Yes, and this was it.
And that was it.
>>THOMAS: And so we're all going
to live happily ever after.
>>LISA: Yes.
That's the hormones, yes.
>>THOMAS: So we have a lot more
wisdom and a lot more depth.
And we have--
>>LISA: Living life--
>>THOMAS: --more commitments.
>>LISA: At 70, I admire or
look up to these people that
are married 60, 70 years.
Because my parents are
going into almost 60
years of marriage.
And they've been through
so many undulations.
It takes a lot of work.
So going in and out
of relationships
seems to be the norm.
>>THOMAS: Well, and also
years ago, I'll tell you.
I never forgot this
because I was destined
to write conscious
uncoupling, and certain things
stick in your mind.
But I remember hearing
Thomas Moore once say,
don't celebrate a
marriage of 50 years
until you know what
that marriage has
done to the souls of
each of those people who
are in that marriage.
And I say that because
we tend to honor
the value of relationships
according to the time
that people have spent together.
And I'm not sure that
that's the only criteria
we should be looking at.
>>LISA: It definitely
is up to the couple.
It's up to the individual.
>>THOMAS: I think it's
about soul growth.
It's about contribution.
It's about love.
So if we can part
ways in love and learn
to value the relationships that
we're leaving for the gifts
that we've been given, the ways
that we've grown, the lessons
we've learned, then
we're going to be
able to honor that relationship,
even though it's passing.
>>LISA: So I have
to ask you, what
is your biggest reason that
you do all that you do?
What is your biggest why?
>>THOMAS: Oh, I love that
you're asking this question.
First of all, I'm a
therapist, and we're
trained to not
ask why questions.
>>LISA: OK.
>>THOMAS: OK?
No, so why questions, where
we all go very often-- like,
why did you do that, are a
little shame-based sometimes,
right?
>>LISA: Ah.
>>THOMAS: So but I
love your question,
because what comes to
me is well, why not?
Why not take a stand for
the highest and the best
that's possible for us
to become for ourselves
and for the benefit of all
beings in this lifetime?
Why not stop defining
ourselves according to our past
and start to live into the
possible self of our future?
Why not set intentions that
are huge, big, bold, that
are going to put us right on
the edge of her own evolution?
>>LISA: Yeah.
Why not?
>>THOMAS: And why not
take a stand for humanity,
particularly at this point in
our current, tumultuous turning
point, to take a stand
for the well-being of life
and for future generations?
>>LISA: Yeah.
Beautifully said.
Well, thank you so
much for teaching us
about how to consciously
really be in relationship.
That's what I've learned
from all of this,
in or out of relationship.
>>THOMAS: Thank you.
>>LISA: I will consciously
take responsibility for it.
>>THOMAS: Thank you, Lisa.
>>LISA: Thank you so much.
And thank you for sharing
this time with me.
If you'd like to watch more
inspirational programming,
check out
"Inspirations" on Gaia.
I am Lisa Garr, and I
invite you to stay aware.
[MUSIC PLAYING]